---
title: Cultural conflict
description: Examples that show just how much we have been shaped by our culture
links: []
navigation:
  icon: i-bxs-bible
---

## Cultural vs. biblical paradigms

Here are a few examples of the ways in which our modern western cultural upbringing clashes with biblical patterns of engagement.

> For the word of God is alive and active. Sharper than any double-edged sword, it penetrates even to dividing soul and spirit, joints and marrow; it judges the thoughts and attitudes of the heart.
>
> Hebrews 4:12

::card-group
  :::card{icon="i-lucide-brain" title="New knowledge"}
  We should take advice from previous generations with some scepticism as they didn't have the information we have now.
  :::

  :::card{icon="i-bxs-bible" title="Ancient wisdom"}
  However developed our knowledge may be, our forebears wrestled with the big questions of life far more than we do.
  :::

  :::card{icon="i-lucide-brain" title="Instant results"}
  Our willingness to persevere in any pursuit when there is no tangible early benefit is shockingly low.
  :::

  :::card{icon="i-bxs-bible" title="A nurtured seed"}
  Our knowledge of the word of God is built up over a lifetime, in season and out of season.
  :::

  :::card{icon="i-lucide-brain" title="Written to us"}
  We expect information to be packaged according to our preferences. We judge the author on their ability to engage us.
  :::

  :::card{icon="i-bxs-bible" title="Written for us"}
  The Bible was written for us, not to us. The author comes alongside us and tests our pursuit of understanding.
  :::

  :::card{icon="i-lucide-brain" title="Simple"}
  Our culture tends towards narratives that follow a familiar shape and for characters to fulfil unambiguous roles. If there is a message at all, it should be simple to understand.
  :::

  :::card{icon="i-bxs-bible" title="Complex"}
  We can play in the Bible's shallows and we can dive into its deep complexity. It is unflinchingly honest about the nature of the people God has chosen to partner with.
  :::

  :::card{icon="i-lucide-brain" title="Personal needs"}
  Our expectation is that we can approach the Bible on our terms, expecting to find a verse that answers the emotional need we have today.
  :::

  :::card{icon="i-bxs-bible" title="Mind of God"}
  The Bible will provide what is required today but it is better that we engage on the Bible's terms and be willing to have our needs permanently redefined.
  :::
::

Also religious
