---
title: Children, young men & fathers
description: John the apostle gives an insight into how his writing should be encountered when he writes his first letter.
links: []
navigation:
  icon: i-mingcute-beard-fill
---

## Intentions of a bible author

The apostle John gives us an amazing insight into how we should approach his writings.

::prose-bible-blockquote
---
chapter: 2
versionId: 111
book: 1JN
verse: 12-14
---
::

### As children

- Be reassured
- You’re a child in the arms of your father
- You read because it might be just one verse that comes to mind, or a prompt from a friend. Something that reminds you of who you are and in a moment readjusts your outlook for the day. And tomorrow. And the day after.

### As young men

- Be strong, get equipped, be ready!
- Let the word of God live in you and be expressed through you - because your destiny is to fight and to overcome the evil one
- You read in order to build good foundations for the future; learn to wrestle with truth; how to handle it well; be discipled by those that knew the “word made flesh”; learn how to ask God to open your eyes; how to behave in each situation. Pursue; be curious; seek the matter out and in doing so, rule like a king. Be anything but passive or complacent.

### As fathers

- Share in the depth and glory of the Father’s eternal presence
- You just know
- You read because beyond any application or utility, you’ve learned to see how he handles his authority, how he loves, how he perseveres, how he suffers well. You see the beauty in the way he’s woven himself through the lives of ordinary men and women to create something bigger than the sum of the parts. You understand the vast arc of the storyline, how he has never been anything but faithful even when his children have forgotten him - yet the final act is already being played out. When you read and consider, time recedes and the incessant noise from the earth falls silent. The Finish is close and I am ready, come closer, come quickly!

## Progression and access

There's ages and stages at work here. It's not possible to be a father without first being a child and growing up and winning some of the battle of life.

So a child won't access the same understanding as a father - but fathers must always be ready to approach God like a child.
